from a software collection, which is based upon the LINUX kernel and, often, a
downloading one of the LINUX distributions, which are available for a wide
personal computers (for example, LINUX Mint) to powerful supercomputers (for

additional software, documentation, a window system (the most common being the X
included software is free and open-source software made available both as
original software. Usually, LINUX distributions optionally include some
binary blobs required for some device drivers.[1] A LINUX distribution may also
(various GNU tools and libraries, for example), packaged together with the LINUX
software is usually adapted to the distribution and then packaged into software
online in so-called repositories, which are storage locations usually
distribution installers (for example, Debian-Installer and Anaconda) or the
written from the ground up by the maintainers of a LINUX distribution.
Almost six hundred LINUX distributions exist, with close to five hundred out of
distributions have taken a wide variety of forms, including those suitable for
well as minimal environments typically for use in embedded systems.[8][9] There
and Ubuntu (Canonical Ltd.), and entirely community-driven distributions, such
use and pre-compiled for a specific instruction set, while some distributions
during installation.[10]
History[edit]
A timeline representing the development of various LINUX distributions,
distributed its first version, 0.01, in 1991. LINUX was initially distributed as
bootable and containing the LINUX kernel itself, and the other with a set of GNU
procedure was complicated, especially in the face of growing amounts of


the absolute minimal tools to get started MCC Interim LINUX, which was made
(SLS), released in 1992, was the most comprehensive distribution for a short
distribution first released in December 1992 The two oldest and still active
maintained, so in July 1993 a new distribution, called Slackware and based on
Murdock set to create a free distribution by founding Debian, which had its

Microsoft Windows operating systems on IBM PC compatible computers, Mac OS on
familiar with Unix from work or school. They embraced LINUX distributions for
the software included.
Originally, the distributions were simply a convenience,[citation needed] but

and database servers (for example, in the LAMP stack), and in embedded devices


puts together the LINUX kernel, free and open-source software, and often some
akin to that provided with other modern operating systems. On the other hand,
kernel, compilation tools, and an installer; the installer compiles all the
these tools and the provided source code.
Package management[edit] See also: Package management system and LINUX package
contains a specific application or service. Examples of packages are a library

removal of packages handled by a package management system (PMS) rather than a
meta-information such as a package description, version, and "dependencies". The
searches, to perform an automatic upgrade to a newer version, to check that all

proprietary operating systems, it is normal for local administrators to also
version of a software application than that supplied with a distribution, or an
Workspaces rather than GNOME or vice versa for the user interface layer). If the
local compilation. However, if additional software is locally added, the "state"
package manager's database. If so, the local administrator will be required to
package manager may no longer be able to do so automatically.
Most distributions install packages, including the kernel and other core
or even permit configuration adjustments at first install time. This makes
acceptable. For specific requirements, much software must be carefully
and local administrators are often obliged to spend time reviewing and

customize most or all of the software included in the distribution. Not all do

"distribution-less" state: everything was retrieved, compiled, configured, and
a distribution altogether. One needs a way to generate the first binaries until
capable of building binaries for the intended target (possibly by

LINUX distributions In broad terms, Linux distributions may be:
Commercial or non-commercial Designed for enterprise users, power users, or for
to the extent of certification by the platform vendor Designed for servers,
specific machine functionalities (e.g. firewalls, network routers, and computer
internationalization and localization, or through inclusion of many music
usability, portability, or comprehensiveness The diversity of LINUX
among vendors and users. The permissive licensing of free software means that
distribution or design one to suit his or her own needs.
